# Personal data

## Description

Personally identifiable information (PII) and personal data are two categories of data that can often be confusing for organizations that handle such information. Understanding the importance of safeguarding this data is essential for website administrators, app creators, and product owners. The digital footprint left by visitors and users can contain sensitive information that, if mishandled, could lead to the identification of individuals.  From a legal standpoint, it could be a matter of breaches and violations with serious consequences.

In this project, the following topics are explored, using the Python logging library:

* Examples of Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
* How to implement a log filter that will obfuscate PII fields
* How to encrypt a password and check the validity of an input password
* How to authenticate to a database using environment variables

---

### [0. Regex-ing](./0-main.py)

Log message obfuscation refers to the practice of masking or encrypting sensitive information in log messages to protect it from unauthorized access or exposure.

* Create a function that returns the log message (fields) obfuscated.

### [1. Log formatter](./1-main.py)

The logging.Formatter class in Python is used to customize the format of log messages generated by the logging module. It allows you to specify how the log messages should be formatted, including the timestamp, log level, and the actual message.

LogRecord instances are created automatically by the Logger every time something is logged. Class logging.LogRecord(name, level, pathname, lineno, msg, args, exc_info, func=None, sinfo=None) where parameter msg is the event description message, which can be a %-format string with placeholders for variable data.  getMessage() returns the message for a LogRecord instance after merging any user-supplied arguments with the message.

* Implement a format method to filter values in incoming log records using filter_datum function created in previous task.




The logging.Formatter class in Python is used to customize the format of log messages generated by the logging module. It allows you to specify how the log messages should be formatted, including the timestamp, log level, and the actual message.